

## TODO

<<<<<<< HEAD
- [ ] Call for commending kevin purser (@[[24-01-25]])


## LOG
Flying DL72 to ams- Kevin is the purser


=======



## LOG


I think I forgot my hard drive pack in my desk that has my show drives on it. It feels like a major issue right now but I’m sure it’s going to be ok. I have backups of shows and I can buy a thumb drive in the airport and it’ll be just fine.  
Overall though I’m worried about my position in this career and what I’m doing with it. It doesn’t feel like I’m going to be getting any opportunities to design something from home in a way that’ll be meaningful enough to not tour. And the further I go the more I feel like I’m used for what I’ve already done and not doing anything new. I need to learn to push myself out of such a logical thinking coding mindset and try to get creative. I know I can do it but it’s feeling really hard. I need to put myself out to people I know and really try. I’m not respected as a designer. And not really even as a programmer if I’m honest. The people I’ve programmed for have used me because I’m available and cheap and not because I was something they were seeking out. I haven’t hit a point where I can settle yet. I need to always put on the best show possible and not rest. My technical skills can help get me there. But the thing that’s going to put me over is networking, and putting on a damn good show. 
I don’t want to be touring in 7 years. But when I look at it realistically I think I’m not setting myself up for that. I need to get uncomfortable again. I need to be hungry again. In 5 years I’m still going to be touring. That’s only 2 album SL cycles away, so it almost feels inevitable. What can I do during that time to make that not happen. I need to make good friends with management and with artists.
>>>>>>> origin/main

